---
    - Notes on 04-17-18
    - Decision Tables
---

# Data Structures

## Motivation

* From SHSU Grads
  * Table-Driven Problem Solvers
  * Finite State Automata
  * Problem Decomposition

## Intelligence

2 Types of intelligence

1.  graphical
    * a picture is worth a thousand words (artistic, managerial)
2.  Symbolic Manipulative
    * algebraic/abstract

# Decision Tables

# Exam Questions

* Material Covered:
  * Hashing (3 questions that apply to hashing [answer 1 or two of them])
  * Binary Trees (threaded and non-threaded (multiple questions involving trees {4} at least one answered))
  * Searching
    * sequential
    * binary search (multiple questions)
      * fewer probes but not always the fastest
      * heinzing's 80/20 rule
    * 1 question on Searching
  * '_N_'ary Trees (2 questions)
    * searching them
  * B Trees
    * file systems
    * SQL Databases
  * only 3 mandatory questions (some questions have multiple parts)
    * Will write Algos on at least 3 questions (2 will need an algo and show you know what you're doing)
      * Example (not on test)
        * _after putting the 3rd thing in sorted order of a hash tree, show the state of the hash tree._
* nothing with I/O
* **Sorting will not be on the exam**



# Final Exam Review

- Fibonacci numbers eliminate the distribution pass in a polyphase sort
  - Initial distribution greatly reduces sorting time
  - many vendors actually use it for initial sort?

- B-Trees (pg114)

  - They're here for auxiliary storage. because of the speedup. find any record in a max of 3 probes in memory. 
  - Holds a key-address pair. Automatic sorting of aux-storage.

- quick sort wants to be pick a random 

  - sort the shorter list first
  -  you can speed it up if random, is between top, bottom, and middle you pick the middle number, put it in the middle and start from there.  if you have from 4-12, you switch to bubble sort, else a nested if-statement.

- when making a perfect hash function, time should be n-n^2. Read up on hash algorithm. look into hash sort? 

- Hash is good with stable data, bad with unstable data.

- Heap Sort.

- Radix Sort.

- ### 12 questions, answer 7, 4 essays. No specifically required questions. 


- Mary Trees
  - (enron pay order is preorder)
  - Many games used post order. mary trees were for b-trees and AI and stuffs
  - Matrix pg 76.
    - the trick to skip a 3d matrix to keep it from being n^3 then you use a linked list.
    - only one pointer is needed for an extra dimension