---
    - Notes on 03-05-18
    - References:
---
- [Review and homework](#review-and-homework)
  - [Going Over Homework](#going-over-homework)
  - [Exam Review](#exam-review)

# Review and homework

## Going Over Homework

1.1
**Give a regex for strings beginning or ending in A**

```regex
a[a-z]* | [a-z]*a
```

1.2
**No 3 consecutive B's**

```r
(bb|b|ε) (a|ab|abb)*
or
(bba|ba|a)*(bb|b|ε)
```

1.3
**Java 9 Identifiers**

*You can have letters or underscore or identifiers*

```
(_|ε)[A-A a-z $_][A-z a-z $_ 0-9]*
```

| State           | A                 | B                | C                 |
| :-------------: | :---------------: | :--------------: | :---------------: |
| A = {0}         | B = {1,2,3,4,6,9} | __               | __                |
| B (final state) | __                | c= {3,4,5,6,8,9} | D = {3,4,6,7,8,9} |
| C (Final State) | __                | C                | D                 |
| D (Final State) | __                | C                | D                 |

(order doesn't seem to matter?)

to make it more efficient: we partition it by final states

{A} {B,C,D}

| state | a     | b     | c     |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| A     | B     | __    | __    |
| (B)   | __    | B     | B     |


------

## Exam Review

- Lexical analysis
- linereal analysis or scanning
- the stream of characters making up the source program is read left to right to create tokens
- Syntax:
  - follow grammar
  - heirarchal
  - make sure program is the right structure
  - also called: heirarchical analysis
- Semantic:
  - make sure they fit together in a meaningful fashion
- Synthesis phases
  - source is translated to intermediate code
  - then make sure to remove redundancies
  - create code generation
- steps (a - d) are the front end of the compiler
- Know these definitions (from blackboard)
  - Compiler(*in lecture 2*)
  - Alphabet (in lecture notes pt. 3 lexical analysis)
    - a finite set of symbols
  - string
    - finite sequence of symbols from a fixed alphabet Ε
  - language
    - a set of strings over a fixed alphabet
  - concatenation of languages
    - concatenation: combine 2 strings
    - all possible combos of strings from one language to another
    - concat l1,l2 = {st|sε}....?? (Lexical analysis)
  - Kleene closure
    - exponentiation
    - L0 = {ε} Li = Li-1 L (language containing empty string)
    - Union from i=0 to infinity of all your Li's
  - regular expression(still lexical analysis. slide #20 & #21)
    - strings over the alphabet ε + { ),(,|,*} such that:
    1. Ø is a regular expression denoting the empty set
    2. ε is a regular expression denoting the set { ε }
    3. a is a regular expression denoting set { a } for any a in E
    4. If r denotes L(r) and s denotes L(s), (regular expressions over E),
    then:
      - r | s is a regular expression denoting L(r) ∪ L(s)
    (union)
      - rs is a regular expression denoting L(r)L(s)
    (concatenation)
      - r* is a regular expression denoting (L(r))*
    (closure)
  - pattern
  - lexeme
  - token (Syntax Analysis somewhere around here)
  - context free grammar
    - a 4-tuple G = (N,T,P,S) where:
      - T
      - dude
  - start symbol
  - finite automaton (lexical analysis slide 43)
    - A non deterministic finite automaton is a mathematical model denoted by the 5-tuple...??
    - A Deterministic Finite automatata is a s
  - derivation (module 4 for part 'A') (syntax analysis A #12)
    - A one-step derivation is defined by a,AB => AYb
  - leftmost derivation
  - ambiguous grammar
    - If you have 2 parse trees for the same input string it's ambiguous
- Be able to construct a regular expression given a description of a regular language.
  - Homework 1
- Be able to describe the language a regular expression generates.
  - Inverse of homework 1
- Be able to construct a CFG given a description of a simple context free language.
  - _
- Be able to describe the language a CFG generates.
  - _
- Be able to use Thompson's construction to build an NFA from a regular expression.
  - _
- Be able to use the Subset construction algorithm to convert an NFA to a DFA.
  - _
- Be able to give an outline of a Lex program, describing each of the three major parts.
  - _
- Be able to write a simple Lex program which will perform some elementary processing on an input file.
  - _
- Be able to write a simple recursive descent parser for a simple language.
  - _
- Be able to remove left recursion (direct or indirect) from a CFG.
  - _
- Be able to use left factoring to remove common prefixes from a CFG.
  - stmt -> if expr then stmt endif  | if expr then stmt else stmt endif
    - compressed:
    - stmt -> if expr then stmt opt_close endif | opt_else -> else stmt | ε